---
# Documentation: https://sourcethemes.com/academic/docs/managing-content/

title: "marie quickstart"
subtitle: ""
summary: ""
authors: []
tags: []
categories: []
date: 2020-06-06T12:29:43-04:00
lastmod: 2020-06-06T12:29:43-04:00
featured: false
draft: false
profile: false # Note this doesn't work

# Featured image
# To use, add an image named `featured.jpg/png` to your page's folder.
# Focal points: Smart, Center, TopLeft, Top, TopRight, Left, Right, BottomLeft, Bottom, BottomRight.
image:
  caption: ""
  focal_point: ""
  preview_only: false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this post with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter your project's folder or file name without extension.
#   E.g. `projects = ["internal-project"]` references `content/project/deep-learning/index.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `projects = []`.
projects: []
---



The SteenLab server is named marie for Marie Tharp, a pioneering oceanographer who used sounding data collected by others to create the first high-quality bathymetric map of the world's oceans. In that spirit, we hope that you will use marie to gain a new understanding of how the planet and the microbial world work.

# Getting an account

To access marie, you will need the following:

* A University of Tennessee email account.
* An account on marie. If you don't have one already, ask permission from Drew Steen. 
* A virtual private network (VPN) client, such as PulseSecure, connected to University of Tennessee's VPN.
* A shell on your computer. 
    * If you are using a Mac, it is easiest to use the Bash or zsh shells that come default with OS X. This is what you get when you open the 'Terminal' program. 
    * If you are using a PC, it is a little more complicated. In newer versions of Windows 10, you can enable a true, Linux-based Bash shell by enabling Windows Subsystem for Linux. If that isn't possible, the best alternative is probably to use Git Bash. It is also possible to use the Windows-native PowerShell, but this will require you to learn two different shell languages.
* A very basic understanding of how to use a Linux shell such as Bash, and a basic idea of how to use conda environments.

# Getting started

Take the following steps to access marie:

* Make sure that you are connected to UT's VPN. If you are using PulseSecure, there will be a little green arrow on the PulseSecure logo when you are connected.
* Open your shell (Terminal on OS X, Git Bash or similar on Windows). 
* Type `ssh <username>@marie.bio.utk.edu`, replacing <username> with your username, and enter your password when prompted. You will now be connected to marie, so that any commands you type into your shell are executed on marie.
* Activate a conda environment. *Note to self: I'd like to edit everyone's .bashrc so that it will automatically start a lab-default conda environment on login.*
* Congratulations! You can now run jobs on marie to your heart's content.

# Rules

* [Taylor Royalty](mailto:troyalty@vols.utk.edu) is marie's system administrator. What he says, goes.

## Passwords and security

marie is subject to frequent hacking attempts. We have already had to wipe the system clean once due to a successful takeover by hackers. Thus, please take these rules seriously. 

* When you are given a marie account, your password will be set to a random 8-character string. I urge you to keep your password in a password manager such as LastPass, rather than an unencrypted file such as a Word document or similar.
* You may change your password, but if you do, change it to another randomly-generated 8-or-more character string, for example one generated by a password manager. Please do not use a password containing real words, birthdays, etc.
* We will inform you of your password in person or via text message or similar. Please do not write your password in an email.
* All of this is on the honor system. However, violation of password rules is grounds for having your marie account revoked.

## Use of conda environments

* Use a conda environment for all of your work. 
* If you think you need to install software outside of a conda environment, check with Taylor or Drew first.

## Hard drive use

* Right now, hard drive space is not a problem. In the future we may implement limits on hard drive use.
* Common data sets, such as the SwissProt database, are stored at *TBD*. All users may read but not write to that space.
* Users must keep their own data in their own directory, `~/<username>/`. If you download data that you think would be useful to others, please contact Taylor or Drew to put it in *the public data directory TBD*.
* marie's hard drives are under RAID control, which give some resilience to hard drive failure. However, each user is responsible for backing up essential data, code and results.
* Users are urged to organize their directories logically, with one folder for each project. Within each project directory, data should be kept in the `data` directory, code in dedicated directories, etc.
* Users are strongly encouraged to keep their code under git control, so that it is easier to recover from mistakes.
